<document>

<div class="navigation">



</div>

<div><p>
<course number="Test" display_name="Test LinAlg" attrib_string="semester=&quot;2018_Summer&quot; info_sidebar_name=&quot;Other Documents&quot; start=&quot;2018-01-11T12:00&quot; end=&quot;2019-12-18T18:00&quot; course_image=&quot;rice-logo.jpg&quot; display_coursenumber=&quot;TestLinAlg&quot; course_organization=&quot;TestRice&quot; graceperiod=&quot;1800 seconds&quot; invitation_only=&quot;true&quot; allow_anonymous=&quot;false&quot; mobile_available=&quot;true&quot; org=&quot;Rice&quot;"><p>
<chapter display_name="Matrix Operations" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;block2&quot; start=&quot;2018-01-11T16:00&quot;" linenum="71" tex_filename="testcourse2.tex" refnum="1"><p>
<sequential display_name="Matrix Multiplication" attrib_string="due=&quot;2019-12-13T14:15&quot; graded=&quot;true&quot; format=&quot;Exercises&quot; url_name=&quot;b2matrixmult-sequential&quot;" linenum="83" tex_filename="testcourse2.tex" refnum="1"><p>
<vertical display_name="Wait for it" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixmult-vertical1&quot;" refnum="1"><p>
<html display_name="Coming Soon" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixmult-tab1-text1&quot;" linenum="5" tex_filename="./comingsoon.tex"><p>
Coming soon! </p></html></p></vertical>    </p><p>
<sequential display_name="Matrix Inverses" attrib_string="due=&quot;2019-12-13T14:15&quot; graded=&quot;true&quot; format=&quot;Exercises&quot; url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-sequential&quot;" linenum="119" tex_filename="testcourse2.tex" refnum="2"><p>
<vertical display_name="Page One" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-vertical1&quot;" refnum="1"><p>
<html display_name="Preliminaries" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab1-text1&quot;" linenum="5" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><p>
At the end of this sequence, and after some practice, you should be able to: </p><ul class="itemize">

<li><p>
Calculate the inverse of a matrix. </p></li>
<li><p>
Recognize conditions under which a matrix is invertible. </p></li>
<li><p>
Use inverses to solve matrix equations. </p></li>
</ul><p>
For time budgeting purposes, this sequence has X videos totaling X minutes, plus some questions. </p></html></p></vertical>   </p><p>
<vertical display_name="What is an inverse function?" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-vertical2&quot;" refnum="2"><p>
<problem display_name="Cube roots" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab2-problem1&quot; showanswer=&quot;finished&quot; attempts=&quot;1&quot; rerandomize=&quot;per_student&quot;" linenum="34" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><text><p>
If [mathjaxinline]\  f(x) = x^3[/mathjaxinline], then here are some values of [mathjaxinline]\  f[/mathjaxinline]: </p><table id="a0000000002" cellpadding="7" width="100%" cellspacing="0" class="eqnarray">
<tr id="a0000000003">
    
    <td style="width:40%">&#160;</td>
    
    
        <td style="vertical-align:middle;                                    text-align:right">
	    [mathjaxinline]\displaystyle  f(-11)[/mathjaxinline]
        </td>
    
    
    
        <td style="vertical-align:middle;                                    text-align:left">
	    [mathjaxinline]\displaystyle = -1331[/mathjaxinline]
        </td>
    
    
    
    <td style="width:40%">&#160;</td>
    <td style="width:20%" class="eqnnum">&#160;</td>
</tr><tr id="a0000000004">
    
    <td style="width:40%">&#160;</td>
    
    
        <td style="vertical-align:middle;                                    text-align:right">
	    [mathjaxinline]\displaystyle f(12)[/mathjaxinline]
        </td>
    
    
    
        <td style="vertical-align:middle;                                    text-align:left">
	    [mathjaxinline]\displaystyle = 1728[/mathjaxinline]
        </td>
    
    
    
    <td style="width:40%">&#160;</td>
    <td style="width:20%" class="eqnnum">&#160;</td>
</tr><tr id="a0000000005">
    
    <td style="width:40%">&#160;</td>
    
    
        <td style="vertical-align:middle;                                    text-align:right">
	    [mathjaxinline]\displaystyle f(-13)[/mathjaxinline]
        </td>
    
    
    
        <td style="vertical-align:middle;                                    text-align:left">
	    [mathjaxinline]\displaystyle = -2197.[/mathjaxinline]
        </td>
    
    
    
    <td style="width:40%">&#160;</td>
    <td style="width:20%" class="eqnnum">&#160;</td>
</tr>
</table><p>
Let [mathjaxinline]g(y) = \displaystyle {\sqrt [3]{y}}[/mathjaxinline]. What is [mathjaxinline]g(-2197)[/mathjaxinline]? </p><p>
<numericalresponse answer="-13">
  <textline>
    <responseparam type="tolerance" default="0.00001"/>
  </textline>
</numericalresponse> </p><p>
<solution><font color="blue">Answer: </font><font color="blue"><p>
 [mathjaxinline]f(x)[/mathjaxinline] and [mathjaxinline]g(y)[/mathjaxinline] are inverse functions. We see above that [mathjaxinline]f(x)[/mathjaxinline] evaluated at -13 is -2197. Since [mathjaxinline]g(y)[/mathjaxinline] and [mathjaxinline]f(x)[/mathjaxinline] perform opposite actions, we know that g evaluated at -2197 is -13.  </p></font></solution></p></text></problem></p><p>
<video display_name="Inverse Transformations and Matrices" youtube_id_1_0="gv2efnioewc" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab2-video1&quot; "></video></p></vertical>   </p><p>
<vertical display_name="Inverse Definitions" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-vertical3&quot;" refnum="3"><p>
<html display_name="Inverse Definitions" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab3-text1&quot;" linenum="57" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><p>
<span style="color:#27408C"><b class="bf">Definition.</b></span> If [mathjaxinline]T: V \rightarrow W[/mathjaxinline] and [mathjaxinline]S: W \rightarrow V[/mathjaxinline] are linear transformations, we say that [mathjaxinline]S[/mathjaxinline] and [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] are <span style="color:#99182C"><b class="bf">inverses</b></span> of one another if [mathjaxinline]S(T(v)) = v[/mathjaxinline] for all [mathjaxinline]v\in V[/mathjaxinline], and [mathjaxinline]T(S(w)) = w[/mathjaxinline] for all [mathjaxinline]w\in W[/mathjaxinline]. If this is the case, we can write [mathjaxinline]S = T^{-1}[/mathjaxinline] and [mathjaxinline]T = S^{-1}[/mathjaxinline]. </p><p>
If [mathjaxinline]S = T^{-1}[/mathjaxinline] exists we say that [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] is <span style="color:#99182C"><b class="bf">invertible</b></span>. </p><p>
<span style="color:#27408C"><b class="bf">Proposition.</b></span> A linear transformation [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] is invertible if and only if it is both into and onto. </p><p>
<span style="color:#27408C"><b class="bf">Definition.</b></span> If [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] is an [mathjaxinline]m\times n[/mathjaxinline] matrix and [mathjaxinline]B[/mathjaxinline] is an [mathjaxinline]n\times m[/mathjaxinline] matrix, we say that [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] and [mathjaxinline]B[/mathjaxinline] are <span style="color:#99182C"><b class="bf">inverses</b></span> of one another if [mathjaxinline]AB = I_ m[/mathjaxinline] and [mathjaxinline]BA = I_ n[/mathjaxinline]. If this is the case, we can write [mathjaxinline]B = A^{-1}[/mathjaxinline] and [mathjaxinline]B = A^{-1}[/mathjaxinline]. </p><p>
If [mathjaxinline]B = A^{-1}[/mathjaxinline] exists we say that [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] is <span style="color:#99182C"><b class="bf">invertible</b></span>. </p></html></p></vertical>   </p><p>
<vertical display_name="Into, Onto, and Invertibility" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-vertical4&quot;" refnum="4"><p>
<problem display_name="Into and Onto" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab4-problem1&quot; showanswer=&quot;finished&quot; attempts=&quot;1&quot; rerandomize=&quot;per_student&quot;" linenum="93" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><text><p>
We've noted that a linear transformation has an inverse if and only if it is both into and onto. Let's recall our results about when a linear transformation from [mathjaxinline]\mathbb R^ n[/mathjaxinline] to [mathjaxinline]\mathbb R^ m[/mathjaxinline] can or must be into or onto. </p><p>
Suppose [mathjaxinline]T: \mathbb R^ n \rightarrow \mathbb R^ m[/mathjaxinline] is a linear transformation. </p><p>
If [mathjaxinline]n&lt;m[/mathjaxinline], what can we conclude about [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline]? </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('T must be into','T might be into, or might not','T cannot be into')" correct="T might be into, or might not"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('T must be onto','T might be onto, or might not','T cannot be onto')" correct="T cannot be onto"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
If [mathjaxinline]n&gt;m[/mathjaxinline], what can we conclude about [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline]? </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('T must be into','T might be into, or might not','T cannot be into')" correct="T cannot be into"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('T must be onto','T might be onto, or might not','T cannot be onto')" correct="T might be onto, or might not"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
<solution><font color="blue">Answer: </font><font color="blue"><p>
 If [mathjaxinline]n&lt;m[/mathjaxinline], our codomain is greater than our domain. Therefore, it may be true that [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] maps any distinct [mathjaxinline]u[/mathjaxinline], [mathjaxinline]v[/mathjaxinline] [mathjaxinline]\in V[/mathjaxinline] to different points ([mathjaxinline]T(u) \neq T(v)[/mathjaxinline]); i.e., our codomain will accommodate this. So [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] might be into. However, this is merely allowed, not required, by the circumstances. ([mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] could map everything to zero, for example.) So [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] might or might not be into. </p><p>
[mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] can only map each point of the domain to a single point in the codomain. We see that with [mathjaxinline]n&lt;m[/mathjaxinline], the image of the domain can't equal the codomain. [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] can't be onto. </p><p>
If [mathjaxinline]n&gt;m[/mathjaxinline], our domain is greater than our codomain. Every point in our domain must be mapped to something in the codomain by [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline]. Therefore we must have at least one pair of distinct points [mathjaxinline]u[/mathjaxinline], [mathjaxinline]v[/mathjaxinline] [mathjaxinline]\in V[/mathjaxinline] such that [mathjaxinline]T(u) = T(v)[/mathjaxinline]. [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] can't be into. </p><p>
Furthermore, if [mathjaxinline]n&gt;m[/mathjaxinline], we have sufficient points in our domain to map to every point in the codomain, so the image of the domain could be the codomain. However, this is merely allowed by the circumstances, not required, so [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] might or might not be onto.  </p></font></solution></p></text></problem></p><p>
<problem display_name="When is invertible possible?" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab4-problem2&quot; showanswer=&quot;finished&quot; attempts=&quot;1&quot; rerandomize=&quot;per_student&quot;" linenum="134" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><text><p>
Again, let [mathjaxinline]T: \mathbb R^ n \rightarrow \mathbb R^ m[/mathjaxinline] be a linear transformation. Given the above, if [mathjaxinline]n&lt;m[/mathjaxinline], is it possible for [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] to be invertible? </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('Yes','No')" correct="No"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
If [mathjaxinline]n&gt;m[/mathjaxinline], is it possible for [mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] to be invertible? </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('Yes','No')" correct="No"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
<solution><font color="blue">Answer: </font><font color="blue"><p>
 We've seen that, if [mathjaxinline]n&lt;m[/mathjaxinline] or if [mathjaxinline]n&gt;m[/mathjaxinline], T can't be both into and onto. Therefore, in neither case could T be invertible.  </p></font></solution></p></text></problem></p></vertical>   </p><p>
<vertical display_name="Conditions for Invertibility" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-vertical5&quot;" refnum="5"><p>
<video display_name="Conditions for Invertibility" youtube_id_1_0="pYqavDw0wt4" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab5-video1&quot; "></video><problem display_name="Square Matrices" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab5-problem1&quot; showanswer=&quot;finished&quot; attempts=&quot;1&quot; rerandomize=&quot;per_student&quot;" linenum="162" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><text><p>
True or False: If a matrix [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] is not square, it cannot be invertible. </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('True','False')" correct="True"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
True or False: If a matrix [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] is square, it must be invertible. </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('True','False')" correct="False"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
<solution><font color="blue">Answer: </font><font color="blue"> Watch the last video again! Non-square matrices cannot be invertible, but not every square matrix is invertible. For instance, a square matrix of all zeros is not invertible.  </font></solution></p></text></problem></p></vertical>   </p><p>
<vertical display_name="Invertible Matrix Theorem" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-vertical6&quot;" refnum="6"><p>
<html display_name="Inverse Definitions" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab6-text1&quot;" linenum="187" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><p>
<span style="color:#27408C"><b class="bf">Invertible Matrix Theorem.</b></span> Suppose that [mathjaxinline]T: \mathbb R^ n \rightarrow \mathbb R^ n[/mathjaxinline] is a linear transformation with (square) standard matrix [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline]. Then the following conditions are all equivalent (i.e., either all of them are true, or all of them are false): </p><ol class="enumerate">
<li value="1"><p>
[mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] is into. </p></li><li value="2"><p>
[mathjaxinline]\mathrm{Ker}(T) = \{  \mathbf{0}\}[/mathjaxinline]. </p></li><li value="3"><p>
The columns of [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] are linearly independent. </p></li><li value="4"><p>
[mathjaxinline]Ax = \mathbf{0}[/mathjaxinline] has only the trivial solution. </p></li><li value="5"><p>
[mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] row reduces to have a pivot in every column (has no free variables). </p></li><li value="6"><p>
[mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] row reduces to the identity matrix. </p></li><li value="7"><p>
[mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] row reduces to have a pivot in every row. </p></li><li value="8"><p>
For every [mathjaxinline]v\in \mathbb R^ n[/mathjaxinline], the equation [mathjaxinline]Ax = v[/mathjaxinline] is consistent. </p></li><li value="9"><p>
The columns of [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] span [mathjaxinline]\mathbb R^ n[/mathjaxinline]. </p></li><li value="10"><p>
[mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] is onto. </p></li><li value="11"><p>
[mathjaxinline]T[/mathjaxinline] is invertible. </p></li><li value="12"><p>
[mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] is invertible. </p></li>
</ol><p>
Note: There will be more equivalent conditions added to this list in the near future! </p></html></p><p>
<problem display_name="Using the Invertible Matrix Theorem" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab6-problem1&quot; showanswer=&quot;finished&quot; attempts=&quot;1&quot; rerandomize=&quot;per_student&quot;" linenum="216" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><text><p>
Suppose [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] is an [mathjaxinline]m\times n[/mathjaxinline] matrix which has at least one free variable. Can we conclude that the columns of [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] do not span [mathjaxinline]\mathbb R^ m[/mathjaxinline]? </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('Yes','No')" correct="No"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
Suppose [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] is an [mathjaxinline]n\times n[/mathjaxinline] matrix which has at least one free variable. Can we conclude that the columns of [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] do not span [mathjaxinline]\mathbb R^ n[/mathjaxinline]? </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('Yes','No')" correct="Yes"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
<solution><font color="blue">Answer: </font><font color="blue"> For the first question, we cannot make that conclusion, since we are not told the matrix is square. For instance, [mathjaxinline]\left[ \begin{array}{ccc} 1 &amp;  0 &amp;  0 \\ 0 &amp;  1 &amp;  0 \end{array} \right][/mathjaxinline] has a free variable, but its columns span [mathjaxinline]\mathbb R^2[/mathjaxinline]. For the second question, we know the matrix is square, so the Invertible Matrix Theorem applies. Since [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] has a free variable, we can conclude that none of the conditions in the Invertible Matrix Theorem are true. In particular, its columns do not span [mathjaxinline]\mathbb R^ n[/mathjaxinline].  </font></solution></p></text></problem></p></vertical>   </p><p>
<vertical display_name="Calculating the Inverse" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-vertical7&quot;" refnum="7"><p>
<problem display_name="Is it Invertible?" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab7-problem1&quot; showanswer=&quot;finished&quot; attempts=&quot;1&quot; rerandomize=&quot;per_student&quot;" linenum="245" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><text><p>
Let [mathjaxinline]A = \left[ \begin{array}{cc} 1 &amp;  2 \\ 2 &amp;  5 \end{array} \right][/mathjaxinline]. By row-reducing [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline], answer the question, is [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] invertible? </p><p>
<optionresponse>
  <optioninput options="('Yes','No')" correct="Yes"/>
</optionresponse> </p><p>
<solution><font color="blue">Answer: </font><font color="blue"><p>
 [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] row reduces to the identity matrix, so it is invertible.  </p></font></solution></p></text></problem></p><p>
<video display_name="Calculating the Inverse" youtube_id_1_0="qraxzr8nb5o" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab7-video1&quot; "></video></p></vertical>   </p><p>
<vertical display_name="Inverse Practice" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-vertical8&quot;" refnum="8"><p>
<problem display_name="Invert a Matrix" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab8-problem1&quot; showanswer=&quot;finished&quot; attempts=&quot;3&quot; rerandomize=&quot;per_student&quot;" linenum="271" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><text><p>
The following [mathjaxinline]3\times 3[/mathjaxinline] matrix is invertible: </p><table id="a0000000006" class="equation" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="7">
<tr>
    <td class="equation">[mathjax]A = \left[ \begin{array}{ccc} 1 &amp;  1 &amp;  2 \\ 3 &amp;  0 &amp;  -2 \\ -1 &amp;  1 &amp;  0 \end{array} \right][/mathjax]</td>
</tr>
</table><p>
Find [mathjaxinline]A^{-1}[/mathjaxinline]. </p><p>
<edxshowhide description="How to Enter a Matrix"><p>
To enter the matrix [mathjaxinline]\left[ \begin{array}{ccc} 0&amp; 1&amp; 2 \\ 1&amp; 2&amp; 3 \end{array} \right][/mathjaxinline], type [[0,1,2],[1,2,3]]. (Type the same thing if you want to enter the augmented matrix [mathjaxinline]\left[ \begin{array}{cc:c} 0&amp; 1&amp; 2 \\ 1&amp; 2&amp; 3 \end{array} \right][/mathjaxinline].) </p><p>
Use decimals only. </p></edxshowhide> </p><script linenum="1" filename="./matrixentry2.tex" type="text/python" system_path="python_lib">
def MatrixEntry(expect, ans):
  	import ast
	import numpy as np 
	ret= {'ok':False}
  	atol = 0.01
  	try:
		list_ans = ast.literal_eval(ans)
		list_expect = ast.literal_eval(expect)
  		matrix_ans = np.matrix(list_ans)
  		matrix_expect = np.matrix(list_expect) 
  		if matrix_ans.shape != matrix_expect.shape:
  			ret['msg'] = 'Wrong shape of matrix'
  		elif np.allclose(matrix_ans, matrix_expect,0.01,1e-08):
  			ret['ok'] = True
  		else:
  			ret['msg'] = 'Something is wrong'
	except SyntaxError:
		ret['msg'] = 'Wrong input format'
  	return ret
</script><p>
<customresponse cfn="MatrixEntry" expect="[[0.2,0.2,-0.2],[0.2,0.2,0.8],[0.3,-0.2,-0.3]]">
  <textline correct_answer="[[0.2,0.2,-0.2],[0.2,0.2,0.8],[0.3,-0.2,-0.3]]"/>
</customresponse> </p><p>
<solution><font color="blue">Answer: </font><font color="blue"><p>
 Row reduce [mathjaxinline]\left[ \begin{array}{c:c} A &amp;  I \end{array} \right][/mathjaxinline] to get the inverse.  </p></font></solution></p></text></problem></p><p>
<problem display_name="Solve Using Inverse" attrib_string="url_name=&quot;b2matrixinv-tab8-problem2&quot; showanswer=&quot;finished&quot; attempts=&quot;1&quot; rerandomize=&quot;per_student&quot;" linenum="295" tex_filename="./block2/matrixinv2.tex"><text><p>
Let [mathjaxinline]A[/mathjaxinline] be the matrix from above. Without doing any further row-reduction, find the solution to [mathjaxinline]Ax = \left[ \begin{array}{c} 100 \\ 0 \\ 10 \end{array} \right].[/mathjaxinline] </p><p>
<edxshowhide description="How to Enter a Column Vector in R^n"><p>
To enter a vector in [mathjaxinline]\mathbb R^ n[/mathjaxinline] such as [mathjaxinline]\left[\begin{array}{c} 1 \\ 2 \\ 3 \end{array} \right][/mathjaxinline], you can either: </p><ul class="itemize">

<li><p>
enter it as you would a [mathjaxinline]3\times 1[/mathjaxinline] matrix: [[1],[2],[3]] </p></li>
<li><p>
or, you can enter it as &lt;1,2,3&gt; </p></li>
</ul><p>
Use decimals only. </p></edxshowhide> </p><script linenum="2" filename="./vectorentry2.tex" type="text/python" system_path="python_lib">
def VectorEntry(expect, ans):
	import ast
	import numpy as np 
  	atol = 0.01
	list_expect = ast.literal_eval(expect)
	vec_expect = np.matrix(list_expect)
  	ret = {"ok":False}
	try:
  		# input format [[1],[2],[3]]
		list_ans = ast.literal_eval(ans)
		vec_ans = np.matrix(list_ans)
  		if vec_ans.shape != vec_expect.shape:
  			ret['msg'] = 'Wrong shape of vector!'
  		elif np.allclose(vec_ans, vec_expect,atol,1e-08):
  			ret['ok'] = True
  		else:
  		# More error message. Will improve this part
  			ret['msg'] = 'something is wrong'   			
	#except SyntaxError:
		#ret['msg'] = 'Wrong input format'
	except SyntaxError:
  		# input format &amp;lt;1,2,3&amp;gt;
		list_ans = ans.replace('&amp;lt;', '[').replace('&amp;gt;', ']')
		list_ans = ast.literal_eval(list_ans)
		vec_ans = np.transpose(np.matrix(list_ans))
  		if vec_ans.shape != vec_expect.shape:
  			ret['msg'] = 'Wrong shape of vector!'
  		elif np.allclose(vec_ans, vec_expect,0.01,1e-08):
  			ret['ok'] = True
  		else:
    		# More error message. Will improve this part
  			ret['msg'] = 'something is wrong' 
  	except:
  		ret['msg'] = 'Wrong input format'
  	return ret 
</script><p>
<customresponse cfn="VectorEntry" expect="[[18],[28],[27]]">
  <textline correct_answer="[[18],[28],[27]]"/>
</customresponse> </p><p>
<solution><font color="blue">Answer: </font><font color="blue"><p>
 Multiply [mathjaxinline]A^{-1}\left[ \begin{array}{c} 100 \\ 0 \\ 10 \end{array} \right].[/mathjaxinline] </p></font></solution></p></text></problem></p></vertical>   </p></sequential> </p></sequential></p></chapter> </p></course> </p></div>





<div class="navigation">



</div>

</document>